PostScript Utilities

Web site: https://github.com/rrthomas/psutils
Maintainer: Reuben Thomas <rrt@sc3d.org>

PSUtils is a suite of utilities for manipulating PostScript documents
produced according to the Document Structuring Conventions. You can select
and rearrange pages, including arrangement into signatures for booklet
printing, combine multple pages into a single page for n-up printing, and
resize, flip and rotate pages.

PSUtils is distributed under the GNU General Public License version 3, or,
at your option, any later version; see the file COPYING. (Some of the input
files in the tests directory are not under this license; see the file
COPYRIGHT in that directory.)

If you simply want to use PSUtils, you will find it in most GNU/Linux
distributions; it is available in brew for macOS and Cygwin for Windows.

The PSUtils utilities intentionally do not check their input is
DSC-conformant, as some programs produce non-conforming output that can be
successfully processed anyway. If PSUtils does not work for you, check
whether your software needs to be configured to produce DSC-conformant
PostScript. The old-scripts directory contains some scripts that fix the
output of certain obsolete programs.


PREREQUISITES

PSUtils requires Perl 5.14 or later plus the IPC::Run3 module, and also
"paper", which allows named paper sizes to be used and configured:

paper: https://github.com/rrthomas/paper


INSTALLATION FROM SOURCE

You need a standard POSIX environment.

Having unpacked the source tarball, run:

./configure && make check && [sudo] make install

For build options, see ./configure --help

Note that to use the scripts before installing them, you need to run them
with pre-inst-env; for example:

./pre-inst-env ./psnup -2 foo.ps


INSTALLATION FROM GIT

To build from git, you need the following extra programs installed:

  automake, autoconf, git

Then run:

./bootstrap

Now follow the normal installation instructions above.


BUGS

Please send bug reports, patches and suggestions to the bug tracker or
maintainer (see the top of this file).


ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

PSUtils was written by Angus Duggan, who maintained it up to release 1
patchlevel 17, and Reuben Thomas.

psselect in modeled on Chris Torek's dviselect, as is psbook, via Angus
Duggan's dvibook; pstops is modeled on Tom Rokicki's dvidvi. psjoin was
originally written by Tom Sato: http://t-sato.in.coocan.jp

Bug fixes and suggestions for improvements to PSUtils have come from many
people, including:

        Brian Colfer            brianc@labmed.ucsf.edu
        Charles A. Finnell      finnell@org.mitre.lear
        Conrad Kimball          cek@com.boeing.sdc
        J. W. Hawtin
        Jochen Schwarze         schwarze@de.isa
        Ken Carpenter           khc@edu.ksu.eece
        Kristian Jorg           etxkrjg@se.ericsson.solsta
        Larry Weissman          larryw@nsr.bioeng.washington.edu 
        Michael L. Brown        brown@wi.extrel.com
        Hunter Goatley	        goathunter@wkuvx1.bitnet
        John Interrante         interran@uluru.Stanford.edu
        Maurizio Cremonesi      MAUCREM@imiclvx.earn
        Matthew Stier           Matthew.Stier@East.Sun.com
        Gerry Pratt             cca13@seq1.kl.ac.uk
        Robert Joop             rj@rainbow.in-berlin.de
	Johan Vromans		jv@mh.nl
	Bryan Faubion		bryanf@tc.fluke.com
	Chris Ritson		C.R.Ritson@ncl.ac.uk
	Michele Marziani	MARZIANI@VAXFE.INFN.IT
	Michael I. Schwartz	mschwart@diana.cair.du.edu
	Chris Ritson		C.R.Ritson@newcastle.ac.uk
	Joerg Eisenreich
	Andreas Borchert	borchert@mathematik.uni-ulm.de
	Mike Coleman
	Dale Scheetz		dwarf@polaris.net
	Yves Arrouye		arrouye@marin.fdn.fr
	Stanislav Brabec	utx@penguin.cz
        Peter Breitenlohner
        Jiri Popelka
        Eric S. Raymond

(Apologies to anyone left out; it was not intentional.)
